Hydrogen
======================
Hydrogen is a loader for AMD64 kernels. While being loaded itself by any
multiboot 1 compatible boot loader (tested with GRUB2) that supports loading of
ELF64 binaries, it sets up the environment for an AOUT AMD64 kernel attached as
a multiboot module. 

When developing operating systems for AMD64 one is faced with lots of legacy
dating back to the roots of X86. Hydrogen is made to handle most of it to hand
the OS developers a clean and mostly legacy-free system.

Ships with a compiled copy of the GRUB2 bootloader (as stage2_eltorito image).
This binary can easily be replaced by any other compilation of GRUB2 that supports
iso9660 and multiboot or any other compatible boot loader.

Features
----------------------

  - Multiprocessor Support: Hydrogen parses the system's ACPI tables to discover
    installed and enabled processors, boots them into long mode and leaves them
    in a halted state.
  - Multiboot Compatibility: Hydrogen is compatible with multiboot 1 bootloaders
    that are capable of loading ELF64 binaries. That way it profits from the wide
    variety of hardware, file systems and boot procedures that is supported by
    GRUB2 and others.
  - Information Table: Hydrogen gathers the information it can find in ACPI and
    multiboot tables and puts them into a single info structure storing information
    important for a kernel to know about the system (memory layout, number of
    processors, modules).
  - Clean Memory Layout: Hydrogen leaves the memory in a well defined state. No
    need to make assumptions about memory layout anymore.

Build Requirements
----------------------
Hydrogen requires the following tools to build:

  - GNU ld (tested version: 2.21.51.0.6)
  - GNU objcopy (tested version: 2.21.51.0.6)
  - mkisofs (tested version: 1.1.11)
  - nasm (tested version: 2.09.07)
  
Hydrogen has been tested using following emulators:

  - bochs (tested version: 2.4.6)
  
Limitations
----------------------
Currenty Hydrogen identity maps the first 64GB of physical memory using 2MB
pages. Behaviour on systems with more than 64GB of memory installed is undefined.

Related Work
----------------------
In development of the Hydrogen Loader the project Pure64 [1] by Return Infinity
has been a great inspiration. While serving a quite similar purpose and also
sharing the basic design philosophy, Pure64 is a stage 2 loader and has to care
about loading the kernel from the boot medium itself, which is why to the date
when Hydrogen was started it only supported FAT16 as a file system and did not
support loading from devices other than a hard drive.

Hydrogen has been developed out of the wish to profit from GRUB2's wide support
of hardware, file systems and devices while still not having to care about the
annoying and lengthy setup required for modern AMD64 systems.

The author thanks the Return Infinity team for their great work and the inspiration
that came with it.

[1] http://www.returninfinity.com/pure64.html